Basic Usage
===========

Using a configuration file (recommended)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1) The most basic configuration file needed to launch a function is::

    cat >> basic-cow.yaml << EOF
    functions:
      scar-cowsay:
        image: grycap/cowsay
    EOF

  Where you define the name of the function and under it the image that will run inside the function.

2) Once you have created the file then you can create the function with::

    scar init -f basic-cow.yaml

3) To execute the function the command is::

    scar run -f basic-cow.yaml

4) Checking the function logs is as easy as::

    scar log -f basic-cow.yaml

  If you want to get an specific log stream or request id from the logs you can specify it either in the configuration file or in the command line, although due to the dinamic nature of those parameters its easier to specify them in the cli.
  To retrieve an specific log stream or request id using the configuration file would be::

    cat >> basic-cow.yaml << EOF
    functions:
      scar-cowsay:
        image: grycap/cowsay
        log_stream_name: 2018/07/10/[$LATEST]037b5bbf77a44a5basdfwerb92805303
        request_id: bc456798-841a-11e8-8z1b-49c89abc6ff1
    EOF

5) Finally to delete the function::

    scar rm -f basic-cow.yaml

Using CLI configuration (old school)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1) Create a Lambda function to execute a container (out of a Docker image that is stored in Docker Hub).

  In these examples the `grycap/cowsay <https://hub.docker.com/r/grycap/cowsay/>`_ Docker image in Docker Hub will be employed::

      scar init -n scar-cowsay -i grycap/cowsay

  Notice that the memory and time limits for the Lambda function can be specified in the command-line. Upon first execution, the file ``$HOME/.scar/scar.cfg`` is created with default values for the memory and timeout, among other features. The command-line values always take precedence over the values in the configuration file. The default values are 512 MB for the memory and 300 seconds for the timeout.

  Further information about the command-line arguments is available in the CLI help::

      scar --help

2) Execute the Lambda function::

    scar run -n scar-cowsay

  The first invocation to the Lambda function will pull the Docker image from DockerHub so it will take considerably longer than the subsequent invocations, which will most certainly reuse the existing cached Docker image.

3) Access the logs

  The logs are stored in CloudWatch with a default retention policy of 30 days (as default). The following command retrieves all the logs related to the Lambda function::

      scar log -n scar-cowsay

  If you only want the logs related to a log-stream-name you can use::

      scar log -n scar-cowsay -ls 'log-stream-name'

  And finally if you know the request id generated by your invocation, you can specify it to get the logs related::

      scar log -n scar-cowsay -ri request-id

  You can also specify the log stream name to retrieve the values related with the request id, usually this will be faster if the function has generated a lot of log output::

      scar log -n scar-cowsay -ls 'log-stream-name' -ri request-id

  All values are shown in the output when executing `scar log`. Do not forget to use the single quotes, as indicated in the example, to avoid unwanted shell expansions.

4) Remove the Lambda function

  You can remove the Lambda function together with the logs generated in CloudWatch by::

      scar rm -n scar-cowsay
